have you heard of the saiman Norway
Masjid project your brothers and sisters
at Islam net are establishing a oneof
its kind Masjid da and Community Center
in the capital of Norway and they need
our urgent support now every person that
accepts Islam through this Center every
revert who learns about their Dean and
calls their family to the worship of
Allah subhana wa tala you will get the
rewards inshallah so here's what you
must do you must contribute to get your
rewards and share this project where is
the Masid where is the Masid where is
the m
how you doing bro I'm a bit emotional
why where is the
m you're laughing at me there's no mid
the Masid is right here why you not
telling me all this time behind is right
here beautiful we need to see what's the
plan bro uh alhamdulillah the donors the
viewers of Ali dawa YouTube channel they
have been our generous supporters for so
long now had it not been for you guys we
would never we would never have had come
as far as we have and as you guys know
brothers and
sisters this is the product of your
guys's gener sport alhamdulillah this is
a huge complex let's take a tour of the
Masid so you guys can all see where your
money has been going believeing let's
[Music]
go so Ali we're now inside the main mid
Hall and the construction is still going
on we're building the M we have ordered
the carpets for the floor all of that
will in be ready before the month of
Ramadan so everyone who has been
donating and supporting this Calla you
guys will be getting the rewards for
everyone who will be praying on these
carpets this fantastic you know why
brother sister just have a look from
there how big this place is guys it's
humongous you know how many could could
it fit I think we can have at least 6
700 people 600 I think so I think insh
in I think you know we can say is
humongous it's use for events as well
alhamdulillah brothers and sisters
there's classes that happened as you can
see behind us they use as events before
they had to rent from other places now
any events debates discussions whatever
it is inshallah it will happen in this
message spreading The Message of Islam
this is number one number two if you
look behind me guys this is where the
classes were happening when we first
arrived there were kids here young kids
running around running around literally
memorizing the Quran learning about the
Quran and to me what's profound is what
they have said they are putting it into
practice as we speak inshallah so here
kids are come here and learn the Quran
and lessons and we're going to go deeper
because there are so many other rooms
because on the left hand side they have
like a little Nursery plate area for the
kids to play aldah they've got their
control center when it comes to filming
and going through here inall we're going
to quickly show you guys in and then go
it's like a maze wait till you guys I
really want you guys to be patient with
this because if you've donated you
really want to see where your donations
are going in so we're going to take a
step at a time here through these doors
guys on the right hand side is something
that I can relate to cuz my daughters
they love it when there's a little
little kitchen or play area when you
come here as you can see guys for even
mothers you know they can leave their
kids here and go pray inallah they got a
little kitchen here little tables
coloring whatever it is the toy area in
for the kids this is where they can play
leave their kids in which is very
important especially for mothers and
here is the control center brother
sisters as you can see when it comes to
producing high content you guys know the
enemies of Islam they spend millions of
pounds on Jets jets for Jesus and uh
flying yeah okay here brother sisters
they have the latest equipment to
produce these materials which you're
going to be see these podcast done with
Muhammad hijab myself coming out in
Ramadan this is where it all happens
they've got the latest equipment and for
the dean of Allah the best of the best
is needed alhamdulillah and then going
back out from here we can go we can go
this way we can go I was going to say
let's go this way we can take a look at
the assistance area as well yes so
alhamdulillah okay so we have a
assistance area up here this is uh new
you didn't show me this no no but okay
you can see it now okay good perfect so
this is for the Sisters yes
alhamdulillah as you can see is quite
big this is where inallah the sisters
will be praying it's a nice V area one
of the things I personally don't like
guys is when I go to a Masid if I'm with
my wife they say oh there's no sisters
area my brother sisters pray also so
they have nice spaces and they have
grass as you can see brother sisters
that they can see inshallah there maybe
if there's a tour going on Etc they've
got chairs I'm assuming some other
classes here sister's class over there
perfect alhamdulillah that's fantastic
now we're going to go down and you're
going to realize what I mean when this
place is like a bit of a maze that one
alhamdulillah let's go inshah so we're
going to head inah down this Hall and we
did have have our event here by the way
yes alhamd which was cated for it was
fantastic we had our happily ever a
event um it was very very good mallah
I'm planning doing that regularly in
Norway but let's go so here as you can
see guys the canteen this is the canteen
so this is where kids you know sisters
brothers whatever is for that matter can
come and eat brother and sisters
alhamdulillah as you can see when we was
here it was so vibrant it was so nice
they had pizzas they had you know little
um cookies and stuff like that here kids
running around eating taking a little
break from class be Quran be it whatever
they are learning inallah they would
come here and it's like a little canteen
and they would enjoy theel coming
together in we recently just built this
class as you can even see on the walls
the walls are not finished so it's still
under construction so there's three
classes here if you come inside guys so
this is where when we came in there was
a sister leading the class ald as you
can see her
and there was um some young sisters here
sitting down some on a break some
talking some learning in this is where
they do the classes this is the first
classroom and there's three other
classrooms so the future generation of
sisters here are Subhan Allah students
of knowledge those are going to serve
the umah yes be for whatever reason do
you get what I'm trying to say marriage
counseling you name it giving advice
giving the sisters who are involved in
the da this is where in those seeds are
being put in in and we're going to see
the fruits of it for the generations to
come in so they have this first class
room second and third and they have the
second
one and the third one now you're going
to ask what is a trampoline doing here
what's a trampoline for you know how to
do any tricks uh no I don't really yeah
go and show us show us show us show us
an Islam n flip a back flip yeah yeah
show us an Islam back flip Islam back
flip all
right
okay the donation guys donation so
sisters what's this space going to be
use
for is this like more like chilling area
yes so we are waiting to have the the
basketball what you call that basketball
yeah basketball we we have selfdefense
here sometimes okay martial arts yeah
martial arts perect we have we have a
dedicated room for that as well I'll
show you that oh do we yes okay let's go
guys the rooms it's not finishing so
from here brother and sisters they have
a gaming room um and this is where when
we came in when we arrived we saw
sisters uh playing the football as you
can see here you know playing the
football there you go some sisters were
scoring goals aldah as you can see
mallah and then from here it's they have
another little area it's like a you know
Halal drink place um and this is the
gaming room guys for the kids and you
know what's really beautiful about this
because it encourages youngsters brother
and sisters to come here they've got
PlayStation they've got what is 95 in TV
98 98 brother sisters where kids we want
to encourage our youngsters to have the
Masjid a place where they can inshallah
come and look forward to it's not just
about Quran memorizing learning lessons
but sometimes they just chill out
sometimes to come and be like you know
what I'm going for a bad time I want to
go to my Masjid that is the connection
we want with our youth we just don't
want it to be a place where they're told
to be quiet don't talk don't move I'm so
sorry the son of the Prophet was not
like that he would allow the kids to
play around and for me PlayStation if
it's going to bring them here and
they're going to pray this Salah learn
Quran take a little break and playay
Playstation 100% all day every day they
rather be in the house of Suba then be
in a bad friend's house playing
PlayStation encouraging doing bad things
so inshallah this is fantastic here as
you can see and from here we are going
to go this are like the youth club area
this like the youth club so if anyone is
good at playing table tennis please come
inshallah they've even got vending
machines with zamzam M you haven't heard
that before I went to get one but it was
finished I was too late so alhamd this
area as you can see they have like chair
days I think another class there's
another classroom there properly built
yet but we need to build that as a
proper no problem build the building can
take place about the fact that it's
already started is what we need to know
so going up here can we go up here we
can take a look this is the principal's
office we recently just built this as
what this the principal's office for the
for for the weekend school now the
people donating are thinking hold on a
second man this it's actually like I'll
be honest with you like I'm I'm one of
the donors I'm very like cuz you just
think okay it's just a Masid and like
when I walk through the door I thought
okay that's the hall and that's what the
Masjid is it's going to serve the
community I was more than happy and one
thing that when you I'm a person I like
to be happy with small things yeah and
when I saw I was like this this a
beautiful project people are going to
come pray here when I saw the rooms it
was like a bonus for me I was like whoa
whoa like it's like you get more of your
money it's like when you buy something
and they say by the way you get this
this this this and this for free and
you're like oh my gosh I was already
happy with the car now you giving me all
these perks so to me these are like all
bonuses the gaming room the classrooms
the canteen the nursery the sister's
area this place and it's not finished
yet well as I continue you're going to
be thinking okay brother Ali we've been
asking for a long time okay where is it
where is it and we're showing you guys
and you're going to feel as much as I
feel that my donations my went somewhere
more than where I expected so this
building is humongous look at this bro
you can easily use this if needed be if
a lot of people come you can use this as
a Masjid yeah I know I know you said you
might do or not cuz you wanted to make
it a place where when we was here kids
were playing football we had young kids
here running around playing football and
to me it was so amazing guys yeah so
look they've got boxing bags and what's
their plan with this you're going to
make it a gym yeah this is going to be
two pro separate gyms one for the
sisters one for the brothers if it
wasn't for the Sisters then we're going
to have to beig have questions with you
but now that you said sisters we're not
going to so sisters as you can see fad
and his
team I don't know what that is but
somebody doing some good work so we
we're actually building right now the
construction is happening all constru
Happ right now okay perfect so it's it's
it's good you know why because our
sisters also want to keep fit for their
husbands do you what I'm trying to say
and so does the brothers you know they
want to get those muscles um so as you
can see guys the work is continuing here
they're planning on turn this into a gym
a full-blown activity Community Center
as you can see the brothers there here
are doing some work fantastic job hello
how are you thank you very much so as
you can see he's doing his work he's
getting the job done um brother and
sisters in amazing uh let's carry on
inah so this is going to be a gym so
next time we come here we're going to
update you with the changes that's
happening and I'm assuming the rooms are
finished is it finished no it's not
finished it's not finished guys more
I've told you guys I've told you guys
come on so check this out guys this
place is little bit cooler you know what
Rob you should put ice buff here I'll
come and do some ice Buffs we actually
need to fix the uh fix heating here
because there's no isolation yeah so
that's the next thing we're going to do
it's fixed we need to put isolation here
what what are you planning on doing in
this room martial arts martial arts yeah
perfect but but you can you do know that
if a lot of people start coming and it
becomes a hub a place where you can even
like people come pray here yeah you can
come pray if there's empty space bro why
not you get what I'm trying to say as
you can see guys look they've got the
boxing gloves Etc if you're into your
Martial but it's a fantastic place it
encourages people I'll be honest with
you it encourages people like I do a bit
of boxing Etc sometimes my trainer when
he has New Comers coming Muslims he
speciically tells them you going to
train with us you pray with us yeah so
when you come to the Masid andan goes
off who's going to be doing oh I'm going
to do boxing no no Brother come on it's
time to pray Salah that is Allah
sometimes guides people via like
sometimes I tell people in the da I say
sometimes people come to Islam for the
wrong means for the wrong reasons but
they stay for the right reasons yeah
they come for the wrong reasons stay for
the right reason a sister comes to Islam
because her boyfriend is a Muslim they
get married and she's like you know what
and I hear stories she becomes more
practicing than him and she so Allah
Works in miraculous ways one of the
reasons I came to Islam was the whole
scientific Miracle narrative yes but
then after that I thought to myself subh
when this whole thing happened like
science is not a ytic for our religion I
stayed in Islam I didn't say oh the
scientific there's a question mark on it
ET no I said alhamdulillah I follow the
Quran so Allah Works in such miraculous
ways guys so it's fantastic that people
come here to train you might even have a
non-muslim who might come and say I want
to join the martial arts what you guys
doing going every time I want to train
you guys go somewhere where you going oh
we're going to pray oh why did you guys
pray I'm telling you guys these things
are really really important for us to
understand even the children in the
weekend school we have we're teaching
the martial arts so they can defend
themselves fantastic so this is the
studio as you can see guys still latest
uh equipment ald as you can see brother
sisters I think these are these are
called what black magic
but obviously it's not that kind of
black magic guys this is the ones that
helping edit in 4k and bringing you guys
the uh finest looking podcast inh done
his sh series here and it will be coming
out in Ramadan if I'm not mistaken yes
so this set up is really nice brother
and sisters uh as you can see um this is
where they'll be doing discussions
inviting other people other speakers
inshallah keeping you guys up to date
and I think what do you guys what kind
of stuff do you pop on your YouTube
channel so uh what we want to do is to
produce High qu quality uh Productions
because a lot of the things that we've
seen online for a long time uh they're
good but they're not that good as the
quality of the Muslim production should
be so our main focus is to produce high
quality high level Islamic Productions
which will insh benefit the in fantastic
fantastic and that's what's needed guys
so they're just not a Masid they're not
a place where it's like a little hub for
the community to come martial arts
gaming areas BR say also podcast it's
very important to be up to date and
social media is one of those ways
brothers and sisters the fact that they
are capitalizing on that is very very
important because why they are Young
Generation alah they are it was born
here
yes Mah the rest of the team they were
born here and it is amazing to see that
they are using their means around them
to inshallah take it to the next level
that it's not just a m it's something
bigger than this has plans brothers and
sisters to take this to the next level
and the video that we've done about the
W that you're going to see that they are
investing in properties around no way so
it can fund the Masjid which means which
I've explained in the video but I'll
explain again your1 donation that you
give instead of it going to the Masjid
argument take a specific sport argument
take let's say individuals are going to
pray memorize the Quran whatever it is
they use those funds so that it
generates more money so that instead of
it being one prayer space that you paid
for it's going to be multiple prayer
spaces so they are actually doubling the
SAR of the donors that are given and to
me as a donor that is how it should be
and I'll be happy with that because
you're maximizing my rewards in the
Hereafter so brothers and sisters hope
you guys have um seen this video and for
other people who have donated towards a
project please send it to them so they
can see the developments and this is
going to be all refurbished like this
whole place you have planning that let
let's let's go and take a look at the
future plans sure let's go let's do that
in I think that'll be fantastic so these
are the future plans of this Masjid as
you can see this is something completely
different and what what you have outside
there this will in be twice the size of
what we have now the facilities will be
10 times better and this is an
investment for the future of Islam the
growth of Islam in the whole country of
Norway insh tal we know that they will
be building
5,000 apartment buildings right outside
this area right right here okay so the
Investments already happening yeah so
this is something that will inshah be a
beacon of light a symbol for Islam in in
the whole of Scandinavia when this
inshallah is finished people will look
at this Masjid as something that as as a
role model as an example for other mass
in Europe
inshal it's a magnificent project it it
looks beautiful and and the facilities
will be of the best of the best so
brothers and sisters if you guys
want to continue having your share in
this humongous project that we have in
front of us then we need your continuous
support because giving something once
and then forgetting about it that's
normal but if you are a person who wants
to stay loyal to the dean of Allah
subhana loyal to the Daw loyal to the
development of Islam and establishment
of the Islamic institutions we need your
continuous support because this will
take at least 2 3 years minimum 2 3
years it's a humongous project and
alhamdulillah we have seen how generous
your your support has been and had it
not been for you guys we would never
ever have reached the level we have
reached as per now all of those children
who actually come here every single
Saturday and Sunday in the weekends and
they are learning about the religion of
Islam you guys are getting the rewards
for that Allah so guys so there's about
this they're trying to create homes for
5,000 people so there's new developments
of house happening if you notice there's
a there's one thing that they have in
common with what's happening with this
Masjid and those new developments for
5,000 people they are investing in the
dun the Masid is investing in the
they're both doing something similar
one's Investing For it's normal thir
people to live Etc but the masjids also
investing in the and we talk about homes
in Jenna that these investors around you
are developing to increase their wealth
yes for what for homes for human beings
that's going to live but brothers and
sisters we are going to die our bodies
are going to die all those people living
in those buildings 5,000 of them are
going to die but your investments will
inshallah be a means for you to have a
Jenna at home where really be is going
to happen in and your soul is going to
live in those houses forever so invest
as they are investing in the in brother
and sister it's a fantastic project I
cannot wait inah and I live to see that
when I come back when we come back we
say to you remember this video this is
how the Masjid looks now so the link is
there guys donate whatever you can inah
may Allah bless and preserve you guys
m